Feature/docs best pratices (#293)
columnflow/columnflow: docs/user_guide/building_blocks/config_objects.md

# Config Objects

Columnflow uses a config file for each analysis, saving the variables specific to the analysis. The
[order](https://github.com/riga/order) library is used for the conservation and use of the
metavariables. In this section, the most important config objects to be defined are presented.

## Datasets

TODO

## Processes

TODO

## Shifts

TODO

## "Variable" creation

> In order to plot something out of the processed datasets, columnflow uses
> {external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`s. It is therefore not enough to create a new
> column in a {py:class}`~columnflow.production.Producer` for the plotting tasks, it must also be
> translated in a {external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`, which name can be given
> to the argument ```--variables``` for the plotting/histograming task. These
> {external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`s need to be added to the config using the
> function {external+order:py:meth}`order.config.Config.add_variable`. The standard syntax is as
> follows:

Reviewer: Suggestion for this section with some additional information how Variables are used in histogramming tasks in the next comment

```suggestion
In order to create histograms out of the processed datasets, columnflow uses
{external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`s. These
{external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`s need to be added to the config using the
function {external+order:py:meth}`order.config.Config.add_variable`. The standard syntax is as
follows:
```

Author: done

```python
config.add_variable(
    name=variable_name,  # this is to be given to the "--variables" argument for the plotting task
    expression=content_of_the_variable,
    null_value=value_to_be_given_if_content_not_available_for_event,
    binning=(bins, lower_edge, upper_edge),
    unit=unit_of_the_variable_if_any,
    x_title=x_title_of_histogram_when_plotted,
)
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In histogramming tasks such as
{py:class}`~columnflow.tasks.histograms.CreateHistograms`, one histogram per Variable
given via the ```--variables``` argument, accessing information from columns based in
 the `expression` of the Variable and storing them in histograms with binning defined
 via the `binning` argument of the Variable
 ```

Author: done

An example with the transverse momentum of the first jet would be:
```python
config.add_variable(
    name="jet1_pt",
    expression="Jet.pt[:,0]",
    null_value=EMPTY_FLOAT,
    binning=(40, 0.0, 400.0),
    unit="GeV",
    x_title=r"Jet 1 $p_{T}$",
)
```

The list of possible keyword arguments can be found in
{external+order:py:class}`order.variable.Variable`. The values in the ```expression``` argument can
be either a one-dimensional or a more dimensional array. In this second case the information is
flattened before plotting. It is to be mentioned that
{py:data}`~columnflow.columnar_util.EMPTY_FLOAT` is a columnflow internal null value and

> corresponds to the value ```-9999```.

Author: done
